Question 1:

Your ten year old has just gone back to school and has asked for your help with their homework - bit shifting in C. Yes, our education system is now so advanced they are learning C at ten years old. Your kid is really stuck on this problem, can you help?

(5 << X) + (2 << Y) = 5136.  What are X and Y?

Question 2:

The good news: You've spotted a very rare Pokemon nearby!  The bad news: It's on the other side of a long firing range, with 100 participants lined up firing their guns.

You decide that the best way to reach the Pokemon is to walk across the firing range while looking down at your phone.  

The rules are:

-You only move straight from one end of the firing range to the other
-You must spend exactly 1 second in each person’s firing line before moving to the next firing line.  At the beginning of each second, you will be in a new firing line.
-If you are in a person’s firing line at the second in which they are scheduled to fire, you will get shot.
-Every person in the firing range fires every N seconds, where each person's N could be different
-In your initial position, you are safe, and you can wait any number of seconds before starting.
-Everyone fires at time 0. So you want to wait at least 1 second before your first move.

The given input file contains the list of every shooters interval, starting with the shooter closest to your starting point.
Given the attached file with the frequency of all 100 lanes, how long do you have to wait before starting across without getting shot?

So for example, if there was only 1 lane and the shooters interval was 2, then you'd have to wait 1 second, since at time 0 he shoots and then at time 1 you can be in his lane, and then at time 2 you are across the shooting gallery when he shoots again.

If the file had 3 lanes, with the frequency 2,4,3 - 
            Start     
lane 1 (2)  ---------  
lane 2 (4)  --------- 
lane 3 (3)  ---------
            End     

Then you would have to wait 5 seconds to start.
If you started at time 1: you'd be in lane 1 at time 1, then you would be in lane 2 at time 2 and in lane 3 at time 3, but lane 3 fires at time 3, so you'd die.
If you started at time 2: you'd be in lane 1 at time 2, so you'd die.
If you started at time 3: you'd be in lane 1 at time 3, then you would be in lane 2 at time 4 and you'd die.
If you started at time 4: you'd be in lane 1 at time 4, so you'd die.
If you started at time 5: you'd be in lane 1 at time 5, then you would be in lane 2 at time 6, then you would be in lane 3 at time 7, then you would be across 

